today we're talking about PC myths that
you shouldn't believe the new pure base
500 from be quiet brings enthusiasts
more of what they want at a price that
they can afford to pre install pure
wings to 140 millimeter fans ensure
proper case ventilation while
installation mats ensure quiet operation
for the optimal balance of noise to
performance the spacious open layout
design means there's plenty of room for
airflow but also plenty of room for
custom water cooling loops with
radiators up to 360 millimeters in size
to see everything that the new pure base
500 has to offer from be quiet click the
link in the description below I don't
know why I've been watching a lot of
Mythbusters lately on you know Discovery
Channel and man do I love that show
I figured you know what there's a lot of
myths out there regarding pcs and we've
done a video like this in the past but
we've got new subscribers we've got
every single month there's new people to
the PC genre when it comes to building
their first computers buying it getting
into this sort of stuff so this kind of
content is always relevant and to be
honest the myths are always kind of
changing a little bit too at the times
so we're going to kick this off in no
particular order but these are things
that you often will hear people say but
they don't really know what it is that
they're saying so rather than how people
be super confused by hearing these
things and and believe them I'm gonna
try and give you some facts regarding
some false myths it sort of started off
here with me being a water cooling
channel talking about something water
cooling and that is that since
water-cooled pcs run so much cooler that
means your room won't get as hot that's
a big bowl of malarkey because you have
a bigger if it's top face-palming back
there because they have a much better
and more efficient transfer of heat out
of the component into the atmosphere via
water and a radiator what you'll find is
that your room can often get hotter and
faster well the room does get faster it
gets hotter faster that's what I'm
trying to say look the amount of heat
that's coming out of the components is
the same the amount of heat and TDP
generated is the same the difference is
how efficient see how efficient it's
making it from that piece to the
atmosphere which is the air inside of
the space of which was responsible for
cooling your components so don't think
that water cooling your PC is gonna make
it run cooler well it will it won't make
a room run cooler though and as the room
temperature goes up believe it not your
PC temp comes back up with it so work on
ventilating your gaming space as much as
your PC now a lot of people tend to
think that if you take an AMD GPU and
you pair it with an AMD CPU that you're
gonna get better performance that's not
true the fact of the matter is as long
as your GPU is not being bottlenecked by
a CPU that's too slow
whether it be Intel or AMD your GPU is
gonna perform to the potential which you
can perform when a lot of people are
typically confusing is the idea of game
development and subroutines where either
AMD engineers or Nvidia engineers will
dump a bunch of a bunch of money into
the development of a game to leverage
their particular technologies whether it
be something specific to AMD or
something specific to Nvidia and then
what happens is as those particular GPUs
are recognized by the game they run a
whole different set of routines than the
competitor so that's why you're gonna
probably see a bigger variance in
performance between the game title than
the CPU itself in fact you might see a
lot more AMD logos on games moving in
the future because of next-gen consoles
and with the rise of popularity of their
rise in CPU so that myth may end up
changing in the future to where games
just run better on AMD now this next one
is one that tends to make my head hurt
just a little bit and that's the idea
that installing more RAM will make your
PC faster that myth is entirely false
because we all know you have to download
more ram for your PC to be faster now as
long as pcs have been around it's
something you've inevitably heard at
least once and that is if your computer
is running slow you need more memory
well that's a half-truth because
depending on what your PC is doing and
whether or not it's RAM limited will
determine whether or not adding more RAM
will actually make it faster so as long
as you have enough RAM for the task that
you're performing on your PC adding more
will do absolutely nothing for your
system now this next one is one that a
lot of people tend to forget about when
selling their computer and that is well
if I just format my hard drive then all
my data's gone and nobody can look at my
stuff that's not true in fact the only
way to get rid of every bit of data or
byte of data whatever you want to call
it is to absolutely destroy the hard
drive that is why many government hard
drives and very sensitive hard drives
that come out of sensitive locations and
companies and firms usually will send
them off to companies that will
completely destroy them and then send
the drive back to the company sometimes
it's fun just to take like a
30.6 and just shoot one and even then
they can still sometimes get some data
off of it now this is one that I have
personally had people say to me on this
channel and that is why are you putting
such a big power supply on there putting
a bigger power supply on your computer
is gonna damage it because the computer
can't use all that power or it's pushing
more power than the parts can use that's
don't even need to say that that one's
false power supplies don't push power
computer parts draw power and there's a
maximum draw available based on the
power supply that you use now the reason
why I use bigger power supplies and
people often think that I need for
instance I'll run a thousand watt power
supply on a single graphics card nominal
CPU system that's not running a ton of
hard drives is because of efficiency
curve it's a pretty common if you look
at the efficiency curve of a power
supply that its most efficient between
50 and 70 percent utilization of its max
power output so to keep things as
efficient and as cool as possible with
my power supplies I tend to oversize
them sometimes it's a waste of money but
I'm not hurting anything so this next
one is one that's only kind of been
around for the last couple of years when
it comes to I know things becoming a
little bit more normalized with PC tech
and that is that solid state drives
don't live as long as hard drives well
Phil actually said that one's plausible
so the reason why Phil says that this
one's considered plaza wolves because
yes as I just said there is a finite
amount of read rights available to an
SSD before it starts to degrade that's
just the way Dan and works hard drives
though on the other hand are also much
more fragile they're not very friendly
with magnets another way you can destroy
data like we were kind of talking about
earlier they're also not very friendly
when it comes to shock by shock I don't
mean like electricity
I mean sudden impacts and things like
that it is a platter that is spinning
what they what's the needle called the
needle thing it's kind of pointy
doohickey that basically reads the data
off the platter yeah the head so SSDs
although much more durable do have a
limited amount of lifespan are you gonna
reach that lifespan probably not now
this next one here look at - tech tips
actually disproved already and that is
that having too many cables or bad cable
management inside your system will
decrease its air flow and therefore
overheat your system that's not true
in fact what testing is constantly shown
is that
in equals air out and that unless you
have complete solid blockages the round
cables and even though they're all
clustered together is no more
restrictive than trying to blow air
through a bush it's kind of like you're
not moving enough air for it to make a
difference and as long as you have air
flow the PC will stay nice and cool
what's more important actually is the
balance of the air flow though whether
or not you have positive pressure
negative pressure or neutral pressure
and at the risk of sounding like an
Linus tech tip shell they actually did a
really great one-year exploration apiece
where they tested that theory and they
compared all the difference of dust
buildup in three systems that ran and
those configs for a solid year in a
dusty warehouse you guys can go and find
a link on your own let's face it
I don't put links down below I always
forget now this next one is one where
it's kind of got multi parts to it and
that is that leaving your computer on
all night is bad for it you see it
really kind of depends on how much
memory you have kind of coming all the
way back to that memory thing where
there's something on your computer
called a page file that is every time it
goes to sleep or hibernates it has to
store everything your computer was doing
in a easy-to-access file so that when I
wakes up again it can load everything
back and that all gets stored in RAM in
fact we should probably do a piece one
day on how to modify your page file how
big or small it is but the myth is also
stating that by leaving your computer on
all night all day is actually better for
it
well that's not always the case kind of
tying back to some of these other myths
if you have inadequate cooling and it's
sitting there hot all night you could be
causing some degradation or just general
slow down to whether we come back to it
in the morning and try and do your
general tests well it's nice and slow
because of the fact that it's
overheating
I've also found that turning your
computer off at night is just generally
good for it because why leave your
computer on all night wasting energy
doing nothing there's no reason for it
at least put your computer to sleep or
hibernate if you're gonna be going
leaving it on all night but I also found
that most often the points of failure in
a computer tend to happen when you power
it on turning on the computer for some
reason seems to be the trigger for some
components to die whether or not the
whatever the reason is behind that I'm
not sure but recommended leaving your
computer on but it's recommended to turn
your computer off when you're not using
it because of the environment and for
this last myth over
your computer can reduce its lifespan
wait a minute something feels for you
that myth is actually sort of true ok
here's what happens when you overclock
your parts you're obviously running it
outside of its manufacturer Lee
specified parameters brother beef more
voltage or faster core or both the
lifespan of a CPU and the manufacturing
process of silicon today has become so
good that a CPU that would last 10 plus
years at factory settings would
overclock to its maximum performance and
max ability might shave 10 15% off of
its lifespan making it now an eight and
a half to a nine year long processor
making it last long enough to definitely
be no longer relevant to modern tech but
not to the point to where you're
probably gonna kill it what tends to
kill processors is too much voltage so I
say it's sort of a half-truth because
you have to be smart about the way you
overclock it but at the same time you
have to be realistic on what you want to
get out of your computer our max over
clocks that we run around here are not
the max over clocks achievable up by
their processors but the max stable
overclock that we're comfortable pushing
it at let's face it most people upgrade
their systems at around the five-year
mark and if you could have had a CPU run
ten years and now it's running eight at
max from overclockable performance you
really didn't change anything in the
long picture of the long the big picture
when it comes to things what you might
notice over time is a slight degradation
of the silicon which means what is
achievable today might not be achievable
in a year or two both Phil and I have
experienced pcs to where we've
overclocked them to the point where
after a year or two we've had to drop
them maybe a hundred megahertz and add
another 50 millivolts of voltage to get
it stable once again but the fact is
we're still running at overclocked
outside of the specified parameters and
they're not dead
in fact I've only killed one processor
in the lifespan of this channel in seven
years and that was actually an AMD FX
processor which was kind of not the most
overclocking friendly in terms of long
term use but that's kind of besides the
point well guys I hope you've enjoyed
today's video where we just kind of had
some fun talking about some PC myths I'm
gonna be heading to Camaro con literally
this weekend by the time you guys are
watching this so if you guys are in the
Vegas
you want to come out and just see some
general cool ass harsh where they'll be
road racing autocross drag racing it's
at the Las Vegas Motor Speedway after
all and my car on the dyno run at 10
a.m. on Saturday then feel free to come
on down there there's general mission
passes available at the gate more than a
thousand cars showing up that we know of
everything from stock classics that have
been restored all the way to seven
second quarter mile drag sirs so if you
guys want to bring the family down to
the Las Vegas area the weather's gonna
be great
then go and find me I've got a tent
somewhere with my car and that's not a
myth that's true I'll be there actually
I'll probably do some social stuff to
you so if you don't want to go you can
kind of check it out on an Instagram or
Twitter but being there as much better
trust me so anyway if you think we've
missed some myths that are really
important and you want people to know
that these myths need to be debunked do
me a favor comment down below with your
favorite fake PC myth so other people
can learn thanks for watching guys and
as always we'll see you in the next one
I feel like I just myself
[Laughter]